README.md, before:

# Note Status for Obsidian

[![GitHub release](https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/devonthesofa/obsidian-note-status)](https://github.com/devonthesofa/obsidian-note-status/releases)
[![Build Status](https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/devonthesofa/obsidian-note-status/release.yml)](https://github.com/devonthesofa/obsidian-note-status/actions)
[![Obsidian Downloads](https://img.shields.io/badge/dynamic/json?logo=obsidian&color=%23483699&label=downloads&query=%24%5B%22note-status%22%5D.downloads&url=https%3A%2F%2Fraw.githubusercontent.com%2Fobsidianmd%2Fobsidian-releases%2Fmaster%2Fcommunity-plugin-stats.json)](https://obsidian.md/plugins?id=note-status)
[![GitHub License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/devonthesofa/obsidian-note-status)](https://github.com/devonthesofa/obsidian-note-status/blob/master/LICENSE)
[![GitHub Stars](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/devonthesofa/obsidian-note-status)](https://github.com/devonthesofa/obsidian-note-status/stargazers)

Track the status of your notes with a powerful, customizable status management system. Mark notes as active, completed, on hold, or create your own custom workflows.

![Status assignment workflow demonstration](images/status-assignment-demo.png)

_Alt: Demonstration of assigning status to a note using the toolbar dropdown_

## 🎯 Features

- **📋 Status Assignment** - Mark notes with workflow statuses (active, completed, on hold, etc.)
- **🎯 Multi-Status Support** - Assign multiple statuses per note
- **📁 File Explorer Icons** - Visual indicators next to filenames with configurable positioning
- **🧭 Status Bar Integration** - View current status at bottom of editor
- **⬇️ Toolbar Dropdown** - Change statuses quickly from editor toolbar
- **📊 Status Dashboard** - Vault overview with statistics and quick actions
- **📈 Grouped View** - Browse notes organized by status with search and filtering
- **⚡ Batch Operations** - Update multiple files simultaneously
- **🎨 Custom Statuses** - Create your own statuses with icons, colors, and descriptions
- **🏷️ Template Scoping** - Organize statuses by note templates
- **🚀 Performance Optimized** - Works with large vaults (40k+ notes tested)

![File explorer with status icons](images/file-explorer-status-icons.png)

_Alt: File explorer showing multiple notes with different status icons positioned next to note names and the tooltip with status overview_

![Status dashboard with vault statistics](images/status-dashboard-overview1.png)

_Alt: Status dashboard showing current note information, vault statistics with total notes and coverage percentages_
![Status dashboard with vault statistics](images/status-dashboard-overview2.png)

_Alt: Status distribution chart showing different statuses with colored bars and note counts for each status type_
![Status dashboard with vault statistics](images/status-dashboard-overview3.png)

_Alt: Quick actions panel with organized sections for views, current note operations, clipboard actions, and tools_

## 💻 Technology Stack

Built with modern web technologies for performance and reliability:

- **TypeScript** - Type-safe development
- **React** - Modern UI framework
- **esbuild** - Fast bundling and development
- **Obsidian API** - Deep vault integration

## 📦 Installation

### Community Plugin Store (Recommended)

1. Open Obsidian → Settings → Community plugins
2. Disable Safe mode → Browse → Search "Note Status"
3. Install and Enable

### Manual Installation

1. Download latest release from [GitHub Releases](https://github.com/devonthesofa/obsidian-note-status/releases)
2. Extract `main.js`, `manifest.json`, and `styles.css` to `.obsidian/plugins/note-status/`
3. Enable in Community plugins settings

## 🚀 How to Use

### Quick Start

1. **Assign Status**:

    1. Click the "No status" in toolbar

        ![Status toolbar](images/no-status-toolbar.png)

        _Alt: Editor toolbar showing "No status" button for status assignment_

    2. → Select a status

2. **View in Explorer**: Status icons appear next to note names

    ![File explorer item](images/file-explorer-item.png)

    _Alt: Single file explorer item showing a note with status icon positioned next to the filename_

3. **Browse by Status or open the Dashboard**: Open from left sidebar

    ![Open status view](images/open-view-buttons.png)

    _Alt: Left sidebar showing ribbon buttons for opening grouped status view and status dashboard_

4. **Batch Update**: Select multiple files → Right-click → Change status

    ![Multiple status context](images/change-multiple-statuses.png)

    _Alt: Context menu appearing when right-clicking multiple selected files, showing "Change note status" option_

### Example Workflows

**Personal Knowledge Management**

```
💡 idea → 📝 draft → ✏️ editing → ✅ completed → 📦 archived
```

**Project Management**

```
📋 backlog → 🚦 ready → 👨‍💻 inDevelopment → 🧪 testing → 🚀 live
```

**Academic Research**

```
🔍 research → 📑 outline → ✏️ draft → 🔬 review → 📚 final
```

![Grouped status view with filtering](images/grouped-status-filtering.png)

_Alt: Grouped status view showing notes organized by status with template filtering and search functionality_

### Custom Statuses

Create your own workflow:

1. **Settings** → Note Status → Custom Statuses
2. **Add Status** → Configure name, icon, color, description
3. **Reorder** using arrow controls
4. **Use** in your notes

Example custom status:

```
Name: urgent
Icon: 🔥
Color: #FF0000
Description: Requires immediate attention
```

![Custom statuses](images/custom-status-change.png)

_Alt: Status selection modal showing custom and template statuses with icons, names, and selection interface_

## 📋 Data Format

Statuses are stored in YAML frontmatter:

```yaml
---
obsidian-note-status:
    - active
    - inProgress
---
```

Works with:

- **Dataview queries**
- **Templater scripts**
- **QuickAdd macros**
- **Global search**

## 🛠️ API Reference

For developers building integrations or contributing:

📚 **[Developer Documentation](https://github.com/devonthesofa/obsidian-note-status/wiki)**

Includes:

- Architecture overview
- Development setup
- API reference
- Contributing guide

## 🤝 Contributing

We welcome contributions!

1. **Check** [GitHub Issues](https://github.com/devonthesofa/obsidian-note-status/issues) for bugs/features
2. **Fork** the repository
3. **Follow** [Development Setup](https://github.com/devonthesofa/obsidian-note-status/wiki/🔧-Development-Setup)
4. **Submit** pull request

## 🐛 Support

- **📖 Documentation**: [Complete Wiki](https://github.com/devonthesofa/obsidian-note-status/wiki)
- **🐞 Bug Reports**: [GitHub Issues](https://github.com/devonthesofa/obsidian-note-status/issues)
- **💡 Feature Requests**: [GitHub Discussions](https://github.com/devonthesofa/obsidian-note-status/discussions)

## ❤️ Support Development

If you find this plugin useful:

[![PayPal](https://img.shields.io/badge/PayPal-00457C?style=for-the-badge&logo=paypal&logoColor=white)](https://paypal.me/aleixsoler)

**PayPal**: https://paypal.me/aleixsoler

---

**License**: MIT | **Author**: [Aleix Soler](https://aleixsoler.com)

Commit message:

feat: extension to non-markdown files

README.md, after:

# Note Status for Obsidian

[![GitHub release](https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/devonthesofa/obsidian-note-status)](https://github.com/devonthesofa/obsidian-note-status/releases)
[![Build Status](https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/devonthesofa/obsidian-note-status/release.yml)](https://github.com/devonthesofa/obsidian-note-status/actions)
[![Obsidian Downloads](https://img.shields.io/badge/dynamic/json?logo=obsidian&color=%23483699&label=downloads&query=%24%5B%22note-status%22%5D.downloads&url=https%3A%2F%2Fraw.githubusercontent.com%2Fobsidianmd%2Fobsidian-releases%2Fmaster%2Fcommunity-plugin-stats.json)](https://obsidian.md/plugins?id=note-status)
[![GitHub License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/devonthesofa/obsidian-note-status)](https://github.com/devonthesofa/obsidian-note-status/blob/master/LICENSE)
[![GitHub Stars](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/devonthesofa/obsidian-note-status)](https://github.com/devonthesofa/obsidian-note-status/stargazers)

Track the status of your notes with a powerful, customizable status management system. Mark notes as active, completed, on hold, or create your own custom workflows.

![Status assignment workflow demonstration](images/status-assignment-demo.png)

_Alt: Demonstration of assigning status to a note using the toolbar dropdown_

## 🎯 Features

- **📋 Status Assignment** - Mark notes with workflow statuses (active, completed, on hold, etc.)
- **🎯 Multi-Status Support** - Assign multiple statuses per note
- **📁 File Explorer Icons** - Visual indicators next to filenames with configurable positioning
- **🧭 Status Bar Integration** - View current status at bottom of editor
- **⬇️ Toolbar Dropdown** - Change statuses quickly from editor toolbar
- **📊 Status Dashboard** - Vault overview with statistics and quick actions
- **📈 Grouped View** - Browse notes organized by status with search and filtering
- **⚡ Batch Operations** - Update multiple files simultaneously
- **🎨 Custom Statuses** - Create your own statuses with icons, colors, and descriptions
- **🏷️ Template Scoping** - Organize statuses by note templates
- **🚀 Performance Optimized** - Works with large vaults (40k+ notes tested)

![File explorer with status icons](images/file-explorer-status-icons.png)

_Alt: File explorer showing multiple notes with different status icons positioned next to note names and the tooltip with status overview_

![Status dashboard with vault statistics](images/status-dashboard-overview1.png)

_Alt: Status dashboard showing current note information, vault statistics with total notes and coverage percentages_
![Status dashboard with vault statistics](images/status-dashboard-overview2.png)

_Alt: Status distribution chart showing different statuses with colored bars and note counts for each status type_
![Status dashboard with vault statistics](images/status-dashboard-overview3.png)

_Alt: Quick actions panel with organized sections for views, current note operations, clipboard actions, and tools_

## 💻 Technology Stack

Built with modern web technologies for performance and reliability:

- **TypeScript** - Type-safe development
- **React** - Modern UI framework
- **esbuild** - Fast bundling and development
- **Obsidian API** - Deep vault integration

## 📦 Installation

### Community Plugin Store (Recommended)

1. Open Obsidian → Settings → Community plugins
2. Disable Safe mode → Browse → Search "Note Status"
3. Install and Enable

### Manual Installation

1. Download latest release from [GitHub Releases](https://github.com/devonthesofa/obsidian-note-status/releases)
2. Extract `main.js`, `manifest.json`, and `styles.css` to `.obsidian/plugins/note-status/`
3. Enable in Community plugins settings

## 🚀 How to Use

### Quick Start

1. **Assign Status**:

    1. Click the "No status" in toolbar

        ![Status toolbar](images/no-status-toolbar.png)

        _Alt: Editor toolbar showing "No status" button for status assignment_

    2. → Select a status

2. **View in Explorer**: Status icons appear next to note names

    ![File explorer item](images/file-explorer-item.png)

    _Alt: Single file explorer item showing a note with status icon positioned next to the filename_

3. **Browse by Status or open the Dashboard**: Open from left sidebar

    ![Open status view](images/open-view-buttons.png)

    _Alt: Left sidebar showing ribbon buttons for opening grouped status view and status dashboard_

4. **Batch Update**: Select multiple files → Right-click → Change status

    ![Multiple status context](images/change-multiple-statuses.png)

    _Alt: Context menu appearing when right-clicking multiple selected files, showing "Change note status" option_

### Example Workflows

**Personal Knowledge Management**

```
💡 idea → 📝 draft → ✏️ editing → ✅ completed → 📦 archived
```

**Project Management**

```
📋 backlog → 🚦 ready → 👨‍💻 inDevelopment → 🧪 testing → 🚀 live
```

**Academic Research**

```
🔍 research → 📑 outline → ✏️ draft → 🔬 review → 📚 final
```

![Grouped status view with filtering](images/grouped-status-filtering.png)

_Alt: Grouped status view showing notes organized by status with template filtering and search functionality_

### Custom Statuses

Create your own workflow:

1. **Settings** → Note Status → Custom Statuses
2. **Add Status** → Configure name, icon, color, description
3. **Reorder** using arrow controls
4. **Use** in your notes

Example custom status:

```
Name: urgent
Icon: 🔥
Color: #FF0000
Description: Requires immediate attention
```

![Custom statuses](images/custom-status-change.png)

_Alt: Status selection modal showing custom and template statuses with icons, names, and selection interface_

## 📋 Data Format

Statuses are stored in YAML frontmatter:

```yaml
---
obsidian-note-status:
    - active
    - inProgress
---
```

Works with:

- **Dataview queries**
- **Templater scripts**
- **QuickAdd macros**
- **Global search**

Non-Markdown files (PDF, Canvas, images, etc.) can't host YAML frontmatter. Their statuses live in a lightweight JSON file under `.obsidian/plugins/obsidian-note-status/non-markdown-statuses.json`, and every command/view in the plugin reads from that store transparently. External tools such as Dataview or Templater still only see Markdown/frontmatter data, so keep using Markdown files if you need those integrations.

## 🛠️ API Reference

For developers building integrations or contributing:

📚 **[Developer Documentation](https://github.com/devonthesofa/obsidian-note-status/wiki)**

Includes:

- Architecture overview
- Development setup
- API reference
- Contributing guide

## 🤝 Contributing

We welcome contributions!

1. **Check** [GitHub Issues](https://github.com/devonthesofa/obsidian-note-status/issues) for bugs/features
2. **Fork** the repository
3. **Follow** [Development Setup](https://github.com/devonthesofa/obsidian-note-status/wiki/🔧-Development-Setup)
4. **Submit** pull request

## 🐛 Support

- **📖 Documentation**: [Complete Wiki](https://github.com/devonthesofa/obsidian-note-status/wiki)
- **🐞 Bug Reports**: [GitHub Issues](https://github.com/devonthesofa/obsidian-note-status/issues)
- **💡 Feature Requests**: [GitHub Discussions](https://github.com/devonthesofa/obsidian-note-status/discussions)

## ❤️ Support Development

If you find this plugin useful:

[![PayPal](https://img.shields.io/badge/PayPal-00457C?style=for-the-badge&logo=paypal&logoColor=white)](https://paypal.me/aleixsoler)

**PayPal**: https://paypal.me/aleixsoler

---

**License**: MIT | **Author**: [Aleix Soler](https://aleixsoler.com)
